# Status update for the 23th of April 2024

## Progress
- Did some test flights with crazyswarm and stored the flight data into an sd card.
- Made a python script to convert xgboost decision tree ensembles into c code (Still not fully tested, but it seems fine so far)
- Started writing the thesis.

## Plans for next week
- Try to get neural network running on-board.
- Fly with the network.
- Plots from sd card, compare with no network.

## To discuss
- What do I need to do to activate the lee controller when compiling? Where exactly should I put the model in the firmware? Currently I have done this at the end of the controller_lee.c controllerLee function:
```c
#ifdef USE_NN
float input_vec[12];
input_vec[0] = state->acc.x*9.81f;
input_vec[1] = state->acc.y*9.81f;
input_vec[2] = state->acc.z*9.81f;
input_vec[3] = sensors->gyro.x*.017453f; // Are these variables defined globably somewhere?
input_vec[4] = sensors->gyro.y*.017453f;
input_vec[5] = sensors->gyro.z*.017453f;
double q0 = state->attitudeQuaternion.w; // Is this the correct quaternion??
double qx = state->attitudeQuaternion.x;
double qy = state->attitudeQuaternion.y;
double qz = state->attitudeQuaternion.z;
double q02 = q0*q0;
double qx2 = qx*qx;
double qz2 = qy*qy;
double qy2 = qz*qz;
// Calculate the first two columns of the rotation matrix from the quaternion
input_vec[6] = q02 + qx2 - qy2 - qz2;
input_vec[7] = 2.f*qx*qy - 2.f*q0*qz;
input_vec[8] = 2.f*qx*qy + 2.f*q0*qz;
input_vec[9] = q02 - qx2 + qy - qz2;
input_vec[10] = 2.f*qx*qz - 2.f*q0*qy;
input_vec[11] = 2.f*qy*qz + 2.f*q0*qx;
const float* output = nn_forward(input_vec); // What do i do with this??

control->torque[0] += output[3]; // Is this correct??
control->torque[1] += output[4];
control->torque[2] += output[5];
#endif
```

- I get a lot of errors when trying to fly the crazyflie seemingly at random: "Motion capture did not recieve data!", "process has died (...) Address already in use", Sometimes the crazyflie takes off but does not follow the path it was given, Sometimes empty files are stored on the sd card...
- How would I plot one of the example paths in csv format like figure8.csv?
- Is the c code generated for the decision tree ensembles good? It tends to get really long with the amount of n_estimators and output variables, is this a problem?
- The outputs of the models generated with xgboost dont seem to correspond with the tree's output leaves when there is just a single tree, am I missing something? Using sklearn to generate the trees this does not happen.
- Did the model outputs of the previous bachelor thesis ever get scaled back? I printed the output error and checked if they are the same as on the pdf. They are the same, however in the thesis pdf it says that these errors are in the scaled back units (N and rad/s^2) but I can't find where in the code this scaling happens. In the data plotting functions model_error_f and model_error_tau (inside plot_data.py) there is even a variable called scaler that does not get used.
