# Status update for the 17th of July 2024 (11 weeks left)

## Progress
- Measured the onboard inference time of the two models:
    - DTE: 31.25 Hz
    - NN: 15.75 Hz
- Created two new models (nn and dte) that only output Fx and Fy and compared their avg. error (in newtons) (these results vary from run to run, but seem to be consistent in the dte outperforming the nn):
    - DTE: (x) -> 0.0012 (y) -> 0.0015
    - NN: (x) -> 0.0018 (y) -> 0.0019
- Noticed some discrepancies with how the models recieve the state information in the controller.
- Continued writing the thesis

## Plans for next week
- Compare flight performance improvement with different models (First choose the final models to be tested)
- Check acceleration scaling on crazyflie-firmware. Mismatch between training/testing data and the input in the firmware.
- Redo test flights, this time also with trees.

## To discuss
- How do I get the pwm values in the controller code to feed into the standard residual calculator?
- The normalization values of the pwm values vary from flight to flight, which ones are the correct one? Can I just take any flight? (look at `./standard_residual_calc_c/`) (Alternative is to just use one of the polynomials from the system-id repo)
- (I feel like we discussed this at some point already) How far in depth should I go into each topic in the thesis paper? (NN, DTE, Quadrotor...)
- The trees might be faster and have better accuracy, but the parameter files are way bigger! A DTE with 10 estimators per class and a max depth of 10 generates a c file of 2.4 MB (For reference the neural network is 13 KB). This is too big for the crazyflie... I tried reducing the amount of estimators but only got down to 5 before loosing accuracy, the max depth could not be lowered without significantly loosing accuracy. The new file is 1.2 MB which is still way too big for the cf. I have some ideas on how to reduce the size of the files, but I estimate that this will only reduce it by 40-60% at most. - Did some testing and managed to get the size down by 76.8%, but this is still too much. (I don't belive it is possible do go down further)
